#© Eef Lemmens

Masterproject Eef Lemmens
Outlier detection in process data by using statistical methods.

This read me file will explain the programs in this repository.

The six datasets that are used are:
(See map Data)
Sepsis_Cases.csv
Hospital_log.csv
BPI_Challenge_2012.csv
BPI Challenge 2017.csv
Road_Traffic_Fine_Management_Process.csv
Hospital_Billing.csv

Making Time series:
	Events per day.py:
		Input: Original event log in csv and the date of the first activity in the log (start date) and the date of the last activity in the log 
		(end date).
		Functionality: Counting the number of events per day.
		Output: A csv file with the time series of events per day.
	
	Number of case variants.py:
		Input: Original event log in csv and the date of the first activity in the log (start date) and the date of the last activity in the log 
		(end date).
		Functionality: Counting the number of case variants that happen on a certain day.
		Output: A csv file with the time series of number of case variants on a day.
		
	Duration start.py:
		Input: Original event log, but ordered in excel (the files with _2.csv at the end) and the date of the first activity in the log (start 
		date) and the date of the last activity in the log (end date).
		Functionality: Checking for every case what the start date is and calculating the average duration of all cases with the same start date.
		These averages are put in a time series.
		Output: A csv file with the time series of the average duration of cases.
		
	Find activities.py:
		Input: Original event log in csv.
		Functionality: Look for all distinct activities in a log.
		Output: A csv file with a list of all distinct activities.
		
	Duration activities.py:
		Input: Original event log in csv, csv file with all distinct activities, and the date of the first activity in the log (start date) and 
		the date of the last activity in the log (end date).
		Functionality: 
		1. Looking for every event what the end date is and calculating the average duration of all events with the same end date.
		2. Looking per different activity what the end date is for every event with that activity name and calculating the average of all events
		   with the same activity name and same end date.
		Output:
		1. A csv file with a time series of the average duration of events.
		2. A csv file with for every activity a time series with the average duration of the events with this activity name.
	
	Duration all activities.py:
		Input: Original event log, but ordered in excel (the files with _2.csv at the end), the csv file with all distinct activities, and the 
		date of the first activity in the log (start date) and the date of the last activity in the log (end date).
		Functionality: 
		1. Determine for every case the duration.
		2. Making a list for every activity with the dates that this activity occurs.
		3. Making a list for every activity with the cases in which this activity occurs.
		Output:
		1. Csv with the durations of the cases (dur_for_now)
		2. Csv with the list for every activity with the dates that this activity occurs (Datesactivities)
		3. Csv with the list for every activity with the cases in which this activity occurs (Thisone)
		
	Duration uitrekenen.py:
	This program is build on the results of Duration all activities.py
		Input: Thisone, Dur_for_now, Datesactivities, the csv file with all distinct activities, and the date of the first activity in the log 
		(start date) and the date of the last activity in the log (end date).
		Functionality: Calculating for every activity the average case duration if that activity is on a certain date.
		Output: Csv file with for every activity a time series with the average case duration if that activity is on a certain day.
	

Outlier detection:
	Classification.py: 
		Input: Time series, a "check" if the time series has been classified before as weekly pattern.
		Functionality: This is a class used for classifying time series into five classes. This class is used by Outlier detection.py
		Output: A Classification

	Outlier detection.py: 
		Input: Any number of time series of the same length in a csv file. 
		Functionality: The program first classifies the time series by using classification.py and afterwards applies the appropriate outlier 
		detection algorithm and this creates a new time series with the outliers. 
		Output: Two csv files; one with only the outliers time series for every input time series and one with both the original time series 
		and the outliers time series for every input time series.

Get Case IDs:
	Case Variants Over Time.py:
		Input: An outlier time series from "Number of Case Variants" (for any of the six datasets) in csv and the original event log in csv.
		Functionality:  Checks if a case has an activity on a day for which the value is an outlier. If yes, this case is an outlier. 
		Creates the "Number of Case Variants per Day" event logs.
		Output: Two csv files; one with the event log for all cases that are classified as an outlier, and one with the event log for all 
		cases that are not classified as an outlier.
	
	Events per day.py:
		Input: An outlier time series from "Events Per Day" (for any of the six datasets) in csv and the original event log in csv.
		Functionality: Checks if a case has an activity on a day for which the value is an outlier. If yes, this case is an outlier.
		Output: Two csv files; one with the event log for all cases that are classified as an outlier, and one with the event log for all 
		cases that are not classified as an outlier.
		
	Duration start.py:
		Input: An outlier time series from "Duration Start" (for any of the six datasets) in csv and the original event log in csv.
		Functionality: Checks if a case started on a day for which the value is an outlier. If yes, this case is an outlier. Creates the
		"Duration of Cases" event logs.
		Output: Two csv files; one with the event log for all cases that are classified as an outlier, and one with the event log for all 
		cases that are not classified as an outlier.
	
	Durationactivities.py:
		Input: An outlier time series from "Durationactivities" (Only for BPIC 2017) in csv and the original event log in csv.
		Functionality: Checks if an activity ends on a day for which the value is an outlier. If yes, the case in which this activity is,
		is an outlier.
		Output: Two csv files; one with the event log for all cases that are classified as an outlier, and one with the event log for all 
		cases that are not classified as an outlier.
		
		
	
